content/php-client/resources/PAM/asset-reference-files.md, before:

### Asset reference file _- Deprecated_

::: warning
This resource is **deprecated**. It means that it will be removed in the next PHP client version, aka the 6.0. As a result, from now on, all the endpoints regarding this resource are deprecated.  
Since the 3.2, you can handle your assets thanks to the Asset Manager, the brand new efficient way to manage your product assets within the PIM. In the Asset Manager, asset reference files can be modelized thanks to [media file attributes](/documentation/asset-manager.html#the-media-file-attribute) in your [asset family](/documentation/asset-manager.html#the-asset-family).  
[Eager to know more about the Asset Manager? It's right here!](/documentation/asset-manager.html#concepts-resources)
:::

:::info
This resource is only available in the [Entreprise Edition](https://www.akeneo.com/enterprise-edition/) and since the version 2.0 of the PHP API client.
:::

#### Get a reference file of a localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

/*
 * Returns an array like this:
 * [
 *     'code'   => 'a/7/7/d/a77d13fb0e661587aec8ce81d479627e3ff467f4_chicago_skyline.jpg',
 *     'locale' => 'en_US',
 *     '_link'  => [
 *         'download' => [
 *             'href' => 'http://akeneo.com/api/rest/v1/assets/chicagoskyline/reference-files/en_US/download',
 *         ],
 *     ],
 * ]
 */
$product = $client->getAssetReferenceFileApi()->getFromLocalizableAsset('chicagoskyline', 'en_US');
```

#### Get a reference file of a not localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

/*
 * Returns an array like this:
 * [
 *     'code'   => 'b/7/b/e/b7be03a438ace1d9ea782440f735a72fff2a3f3c_bridge.jpg',
 *     'locale' => null,
 *     '_link'  => [
 *         'download' => [
 *             'href' => 'http://akeneo.com/api/rest/v1/assets/bridge/reference-files/no-locale/download',
 *         ],
 *     ],
 * ]
 */
$product = $client->getAssetReferenceFileApi()->getFromNotLocalizableAsset('bridge');
```

#### Download a reference file of a localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$product = $client->getAssetReferenceFileApi()->downloadFromLocalizableAsset('chicagoskyline', 'en_US');

file_put_contents('/tmp/chicagoskyline.jpg', $product->getContents());
```

From the v4 of the PHP client, the response is returned instead of the content. It allows getting the filename and the MIME type from the response.
You can get the content this way:

```php
file_put_contents('/tmp/chicagoskyline.jpg', $product->getBody()->getContents());
```

#### Download a reference file of a not localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$product = $client->getAssetReferenceFileApi()->downloadFromNotLocalizableAsset('bridge');

file_put_contents('/tmp/bridge.jpg', $product->getContents());
```

From the v4 of the PHP client, the response is returned instead of the content. It allows getting the filename and the MIME type from the response.
You can get the content this way:

```php
file_put_contents('/tmp/bridge.jpg', $product->getBody()->getContents());
```

#### Upload an asset reference file for a localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$client->getAssetReferenceFileApi()->uploadForLocalizableAsset('/tmp/chicagoskyline.jpg', 'chicagoskyline', 'en_US');
```

It will also automatically generate all the variation files corresponding to this reference file.
If one or more generations of variation files failed, a specific exception will be thrown.
You'll be able to see the details of the errors from this exception.

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

try {
    $client->getAssetReferenceFileApi()->uploadForLocalizableAsset('/tmp/chicagoskyline.jpg', 'chicagoskyline', 'en_US');
} catch(UploadAssetReferenceFileErrorException $exception) {
    $uploadErrors = $exception->getErrors();
}

/*
 * Example of errors:
 *
 * [
 *     0 => [
 *         'message' => 'Impossible to "scale" the image "Ziggy.jpg" with a width bigger than the original.',
 *         'scope'   => 'mobile',
 *         'locale'  => 'en_US',
 *     ],
 *     1 => [
 *         'message' => 'Impossible to "resize" the image "Ziggy.jpg" with a width bigger than the original.',
 *         'scope'   => 'print',
 *         'locale'  => 'en_US',
 *     ]
 * ]
 */

```

#### Upload an asset reference file for a not localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$client->getAssetReferenceFileApi()->uploadForNotLocalizableAsset('/tmp/bridge.jpg', 'bridge');
```

It will also automatically generate all the variation files corresponding to this reference file.
If one or more generation of variation file failed, a specific exception will be thrown.
You'll be able to see the details of the errors from this exception.

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

try {
    $client->getAssetReferenceFileApi()->uploadForNotLocalizableAsset('/tmp/bridge.jpg', 'bridge');
} catch(UploadAssetReferenceFileErrorException $exception) {
    $uploadErrors = $exception->getErrors();
}

/*
 * Example of error:
 *
 * [
 *     'message' => 'Impossible to "scale" the image "Ziggy.jpg" with a width bigger than the original.',
 *     'scope'   => 'mobile',
 *     'locale'  => null,
 * ]
 */
```

Commit message:

Add link to the Medium post

content/php-client/resources/PAM/asset-reference-files.md, after:

### Asset reference file _- Deprecated_

::: warning
This resource is **deprecated**. It means that it will be removed in the next PHP client version, aka the 6.0. As a result, from now on, all the endpoints regarding this resource are deprecated. To understand why, we recommend you to read this [Medium post](https://medium.com/akeneo-labs/between-stability-and-innovation-c2d2dd61a804), we wrote on this special occasion.  
Also, did you know that since the 3.2, you can handle your assets thanks to the Asset Manager, the brand new efficient way to manage your product assets within the PIM. In the Asset Manager, asset reference files can be modelized thanks to [media file attributes](/documentation/asset-manager.html#the-media-file-attribute) in your [asset family](/documentation/asset-manager.html#the-asset-family).  
[Eager to know more about the Asset Manager? It's right here!](/documentation/asset-manager.html#concepts-resources)
:::

:::info
This resource is only available in the [Entreprise Edition](https://www.akeneo.com/enterprise-edition/) and since the version 2.0 of the PHP API client.
:::

#### Get a reference file of a localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

/*
 * Returns an array like this:
 * [
 *     'code'   => 'a/7/7/d/a77d13fb0e661587aec8ce81d479627e3ff467f4_chicago_skyline.jpg',
 *     'locale' => 'en_US',
 *     '_link'  => [
 *         'download' => [
 *             'href' => 'http://akeneo.com/api/rest/v1/assets/chicagoskyline/reference-files/en_US/download',
 *         ],
 *     ],
 * ]
 */
$product = $client->getAssetReferenceFileApi()->getFromLocalizableAsset('chicagoskyline', 'en_US');
```

#### Get a reference file of a not localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

/*
 * Returns an array like this:
 * [
 *     'code'   => 'b/7/b/e/b7be03a438ace1d9ea782440f735a72fff2a3f3c_bridge.jpg',
 *     'locale' => null,
 *     '_link'  => [
 *         'download' => [
 *             'href' => 'http://akeneo.com/api/rest/v1/assets/bridge/reference-files/no-locale/download',
 *         ],
 *     ],
 * ]
 */
$product = $client->getAssetReferenceFileApi()->getFromNotLocalizableAsset('bridge');
```

#### Download a reference file of a localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$product = $client->getAssetReferenceFileApi()->downloadFromLocalizableAsset('chicagoskyline', 'en_US');

file_put_contents('/tmp/chicagoskyline.jpg', $product->getContents());
```

From the v4 of the PHP client, the response is returned instead of the content. It allows getting the filename and the MIME type from the response.
You can get the content this way:

```php
file_put_contents('/tmp/chicagoskyline.jpg', $product->getBody()->getContents());
```

#### Download a reference file of a not localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$product = $client->getAssetReferenceFileApi()->downloadFromNotLocalizableAsset('bridge');

file_put_contents('/tmp/bridge.jpg', $product->getContents());
```

From the v4 of the PHP client, the response is returned instead of the content. It allows getting the filename and the MIME type from the response.
You can get the content this way:

```php
file_put_contents('/tmp/bridge.jpg', $product->getBody()->getContents());
```

#### Upload an asset reference file for a localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$client->getAssetReferenceFileApi()->uploadForLocalizableAsset('/tmp/chicagoskyline.jpg', 'chicagoskyline', 'en_US');
```

It will also automatically generate all the variation files corresponding to this reference file.
If one or more generations of variation files failed, a specific exception will be thrown.
You'll be able to see the details of the errors from this exception.

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

try {
    $client->getAssetReferenceFileApi()->uploadForLocalizableAsset('/tmp/chicagoskyline.jpg', 'chicagoskyline', 'en_US');
} catch(UploadAssetReferenceFileErrorException $exception) {
    $uploadErrors = $exception->getErrors();
}

/*
 * Example of errors:
 *
 * [
 *     0 => [
 *         'message' => 'Impossible to "scale" the image "Ziggy.jpg" with a width bigger than the original.',
 *         'scope'   => 'mobile',
 *         'locale'  => 'en_US',
 *     ],
 *     1 => [
 *         'message' => 'Impossible to "resize" the image "Ziggy.jpg" with a width bigger than the original.',
 *         'scope'   => 'print',
 *         'locale'  => 'en_US',
 *     ]
 * ]
 */

```

#### Upload an asset reference file for a not localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$client->getAssetReferenceFileApi()->uploadForNotLocalizableAsset('/tmp/bridge.jpg', 'bridge');
```

It will also automatically generate all the variation files corresponding to this reference file.
If one or more generation of variation file failed, a specific exception will be thrown.
You'll be able to see the details of the errors from this exception.

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

try {
    $client->getAssetReferenceFileApi()->uploadForNotLocalizableAsset('/tmp/bridge.jpg', 'bridge');
} catch(UploadAssetReferenceFileErrorException $exception) {
    $uploadErrors = $exception->getErrors();
}

/*
 * Example of error:
 *
 * [
 *     'message' => 'Impossible to "scale" the image "Ziggy.jpg" with a width bigger than the original.',
 *     'scope'   => 'mobile',
 *     'locale'  => null,
 * ]
 */
```
