content/php-client/resources/PAM/asset-variation-files.md, before:

### Asset variation file _- Deprecated_

::: warning
This resource is **deprecated**. It means that it will be removed in the next PHP client version, aka the 6.0. As a result, from now on, all the endpoints regarding this resource are deprecated.  
Since the 3.2, you can handle your assets thanks to the Asset Manager, the brand new efficient way to manage your product assets within the PIM. In the Asset Manager, asset variation files can be modelized thanks to a [media file attributes](/documentation/asset-manager.html#the-media-file-attribute) in your [asset family](/documentation/asset-manager.html#the-asset-family).  
[Eager to know more about the Asset Manager? It's right here!](/documentation/asset-manager.html#concepts-resources)
:::

:::info
This resource is only available in the [Entreprise Edition](https://www.akeneo.com/enterprise-edition/) and since the version 2.0 of the PHP API client.
:::

#### Get a variation file of a localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

/*
 * Returns an array like this:
 * [
 *     'code'   => 'f/5/5/c/f55c7ea4adae17d4e02f4d04a839bc2a7cdbf165_chicago_skyline_en_US_mobile.jpg',
 *     'locale' => 'en_US',
 *     'scope'  => 'mobile',
 *     '_link'  => [
 *         'download' => [
 *             'href' => 'http://akeneo.com/api/rest/v1/assets/chicagoskyline/variation-files/mobile/en_US/download',
 *         ],
 *     ],
 * ]
 */
$product = $client->getAssetVariationFileApi()->getFromLocalizableAsset('chicagoskyline', 'mobile', 'en_US');
```

#### Get a variation file of a not localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

/*
 * Returns an array like this:
 * [
 *     'code'   => '0/7/2/1/07217eea32563821b46336d2dec696e4f69415ec_bridge_mobile.jpg',
 *     'locale' => null,
 *     'scope'  => 'mobile',
 *     '_link'  => [
 *         'download' => [
 *             'href' => 'http://akeneo.com/api/rest/v1/assets/bridge/variation-files/mobile/no-locale/download',
 *         ],
 *     ],
 * ]
 */
$product = $client->getAssetVariationFileApi()->getFromNotLocalizableAsset('bridge', 'mobile');
```

#### Download a variation file of a localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$product = $client->getAssetVariationFileApi()->downloadFromLocalizableAsset('chicagoskyline', 'mobile', 'en_US');

file_put_contents('/tmp/chicagoskyline-mobile.jpg', $product->getContents());
```

From the v4 of the PHP client, the response is returned instead of the content. It allows getting the filename and the MIME type from the response.
You can get the content this way:

```php
file_put_contents('/tmp/chicagoskyline-mobile.jpg', $product->getBody()->getContents());
```

#### Download a variation file of a not localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$product = $client->getAssetVariationFileApi()->downloadFromNotLocalizableAsset('bridge', 'mobile');

file_put_contents('/tmp/bridge-mobile.jpg', $product->getContents());
```

From the v4 of the PHP client, the response is returned instead of the content. It allows getting the filename and the MIME type from the response.
You can get the content this way:

```php
file_put_contents('/tmp/bridge-mobile.jpg', $product->getBody()->getContents());
```

#### Upload an asset variation file for a localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$client->getAssetVariationFileApi()->uploadForLocalizableAsset('/tmp/chicagoskyline-mobile.jpg', 'chicagoskyline', 'mobile','en_US');
```

#### Upload an asset variation file for a not localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$client->getAssetVariationFileApi()->uploadForNotLocalizableAsset('/tmp/bridge-mobile.jpg', 'bridge', 'mobile');
```

Commit message:

Add link to the Medium post

content/php-client/resources/PAM/asset-variation-files.md, after:

### Asset variation file _- Deprecated_

::: warning
This resource is **deprecated**. It means that it will be removed in the next PHP client version, aka the 6.0. As a result, from now on, all the endpoints regarding this resource are deprecated. To understand why, we recommend you to read this [Medium post](https://medium.com/akeneo-labs/between-stability-and-innovation-c2d2dd61a804), we wrote on this special occasion.  
Also, did you know that since the 3.2, you can handle your assets thanks to the Asset Manager, the brand new efficient way to manage your product assets within the PIM. In the Asset Manager, asset variation files can be modelized thanks to a [media file attributes](/documentation/asset-manager.html#the-media-file-attribute) in your [asset family](/documentation/asset-manager.html#the-asset-family).  
[Eager to know more about the Asset Manager? It's right here!](/documentation/asset-manager.html#concepts-resources)
:::

:::info
This resource is only available in the [Entreprise Edition](https://www.akeneo.com/enterprise-edition/) and since the version 2.0 of the PHP API client.
:::

#### Get a variation file of a localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

/*
 * Returns an array like this:
 * [
 *     'code'   => 'f/5/5/c/f55c7ea4adae17d4e02f4d04a839bc2a7cdbf165_chicago_skyline_en_US_mobile.jpg',
 *     'locale' => 'en_US',
 *     'scope'  => 'mobile',
 *     '_link'  => [
 *         'download' => [
 *             'href' => 'http://akeneo.com/api/rest/v1/assets/chicagoskyline/variation-files/mobile/en_US/download',
 *         ],
 *     ],
 * ]
 */
$product = $client->getAssetVariationFileApi()->getFromLocalizableAsset('chicagoskyline', 'mobile', 'en_US');
```

#### Get a variation file of a not localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

/*
 * Returns an array like this:
 * [
 *     'code'   => '0/7/2/1/07217eea32563821b46336d2dec696e4f69415ec_bridge_mobile.jpg',
 *     'locale' => null,
 *     'scope'  => 'mobile',
 *     '_link'  => [
 *         'download' => [
 *             'href' => 'http://akeneo.com/api/rest/v1/assets/bridge/variation-files/mobile/no-locale/download',
 *         ],
 *     ],
 * ]
 */
$product = $client->getAssetVariationFileApi()->getFromNotLocalizableAsset('bridge', 'mobile');
```

#### Download a variation file of a localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$product = $client->getAssetVariationFileApi()->downloadFromLocalizableAsset('chicagoskyline', 'mobile', 'en_US');

file_put_contents('/tmp/chicagoskyline-mobile.jpg', $product->getContents());
```

From the v4 of the PHP client, the response is returned instead of the content. It allows getting the filename and the MIME type from the response.
You can get the content this way:

```php
file_put_contents('/tmp/chicagoskyline-mobile.jpg', $product->getBody()->getContents());
```

#### Download a variation file of a not localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$product = $client->getAssetVariationFileApi()->downloadFromNotLocalizableAsset('bridge', 'mobile');

file_put_contents('/tmp/bridge-mobile.jpg', $product->getContents());
```

From the v4 of the PHP client, the response is returned instead of the content. It allows getting the filename and the MIME type from the response.
You can get the content this way:

```php
file_put_contents('/tmp/bridge-mobile.jpg', $product->getBody()->getContents());
```

#### Upload an asset variation file for a localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$client->getAssetVariationFileApi()->uploadForLocalizableAsset('/tmp/chicagoskyline-mobile.jpg', 'chicagoskyline', 'mobile','en_US');
```

#### Upload an asset variation file for a not localizable asset

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$client->getAssetVariationFileApi()->uploadForNotLocalizableAsset('/tmp/bridge-mobile.jpg', 'bridge', 'mobile');
```
