content/php-client/resources/PAM/assets.md, before:

### Asset _- Deprecated_

::: warning
This resource is **deprecated**. It means that it will be removed in the next PHP client version, aka the 6.0. As a result, from now on, all the methods regarding this resource are deprecated.  
Since the 3.2, you can handle your assets thanks to the Asset Manager, the brand new efficient way to manage your product assets within the PIM.  
[Eager to know more about these new assets? It's right here!](/documentation/asset-manager.html#the-asset)
:::

:::info
This resource is only available in the [Entreprise Edition](https://www.akeneo.com/enterprise-edition/) and since the version 2.0 of the PHP API client.
:::

#### Get an asset 

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

/*
 * Returns an array like this:
 * [
 *     'code'            => 'bridge',
 *     'localizable'     => false,
 *     'description'     => 'Architectural bridge of a city, above water',
 *     'end_of_use'      => '2028-01-25T00:00:00+00:00',
 *     'tags'            => [
 *         'cities',
 *         'water',
 *     ],
 *     'categories'      => [
 *         'faces',
 *     ],
 *     'variation_files' => [
 *         [
 *             '_link'   => [
 *                 'download' => [
 *                     'href' => 'http://akeneo.com/api/rest/v1/assets/bridge/variation-files/mobile/no-locale/download',
 *                 ],
 *                 'self'     => [
 *                     'href' => 'http://akeneo.com/api/rest/v1/assets/bridge/variation-files/mobile/no-locale',
 *                 ],
 *             ],
 *             'locale' => null,
 *             'scope'  => 'mobile',
 *             'code'   => '0/7/2/1/07217eea32563821b46336d2dec696e4f69415ec_bridge_mobile.jpg',
 *         ],
 *         [
 *             '_link'   => [
 *                 'download' => [
 *                     'href' => 'http://akeneo.com/api/rest/v1/assets/bridge/variation-files/ecommerce/no-locale/download',
 *                 ],
 *                 'self'     => [
 *                     'href' => 'http://akeneo.com/api/rest/v1/assets/bridge/variation-files/ecommerce/no-locale',
 *                 ],
 *             ],
 *             'locale' => null,
 *             'scope'  => 'ecommerce',
 *             'code'   => 'a/e/1/0/ae104d0b8cd2111380029240630008a01585d7ed_bridge_ecommerce.jpg',
 *         ],
 *     ],
 *     'reference_files' => [
 *         [
 *             '_link'  => [
 *                 'download' => [
 *                     'href' => 'http://akeneo.com/api/rest/v1/assets/bridge/reference-files/no-locale/download',
 *                 ],
 *                 'self'     => [
 *                     'href' => 'http://akeneo.com/api/rest/v1/assets/bridge/reference-files/no-locale',
 *                 ],
 *             ],
 *             'locale' => null,
 *             'code'   => 'b/7/b/e/b7be03a438ace1d9ea782440f735a72fff2a3f3c_bridge.jpg',
 *         ],
 *     ],
 * ]
 */
$asset = $client->getAssetApi()->get('bridge');
```

#### Get a list of assets 

There are two ways of getting assets. 

**By getting pages**

This method allows to get assets page per page, as a classical pagination.
It's possible to get the total number of assets with this method.

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$firstPage = $client->getAssetApi()->listPerPage(50, true);
```

You can get more information about this method [here](/php-client/list-resources.html#by-getting-pages).

**With a cursor**

This method allows to iterate the assets. It will automatically get the next pages for you.

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$assets = $client->getAssetApi()->all(50);
```

You can get more information about this method [here](/php-client/list-resources.html#with-a-cursor).

#### Create an asset 

If the asset does not exist yet, this method creates it, otherwise it throws an exception.

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/', 'client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin')->build()

$client->getAssetApi()->create('unicorn', [
    'localizable'     => false,
    'description'     => 'The wonderful unicorn',
    'end_of_use'      => '2042-11-21',
    'tags'            => ['colored', 'flowers'],
    'categories'      => ['face', 'pack'],
]);
```

#### Upsert an asset 

If the asset does not exist yet, this method creates it, otherwise it updates it.

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$client->getAssetApi()->upsert('bridge', [
    'localizable' => false,
    'description' => 'Architectural bridge of a city, above water',
    'end_of_use'  => null,
    'tags'        => ['water'],
    'categories'  => ['face', 'pack']
]);
```

#### Upsert a list of assets 

This method allows to create or update a list of assets.
It has the same behavior as the `upsert` method for a single asset, except that the code must be specified in the data of each asset.


```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$client->getAssetApi()->upsertList([
    [
        'code'        => 'unicorn',
        'localizable' => false,
        'description' => 'The wonderful unicorn',
        'end_of_use'  => '2042-11-21',
        'tags'        => ['colored', 'flowers'],
        'categories'  => ['face', 'pack'],
    ],
    [
        'code'        => 'bridge',
        'localizable' => false,
        'description' => 'Architectural bridge of a city, above water',
        'end_of_use'  => null,
        'tags'        => ['water'],
        'categories'  => ['face', 'pack']
    ],
]);
```

::: warning
There is a limit on the maximum number of assets that you can upsert in one time on server side. By default this limit is set to 100.
:::

Commit message:

Add link to the Medium post

content/php-client/resources/PAM/assets.md, after:

### Asset _- Deprecated_

::: warning
This resource is **deprecated**. It means that it will be removed in the next PHP client version, aka the 6.0. As a result, from now on, all the methods regarding this resource are deprecated. To understand why, we recommend you to read this [Medium post](https://medium.com/akeneo-labs/between-stability-and-innovation-c2d2dd61a804), we wrote on this special occasion.  
Also, did you know that since the 3.2, you can handle your assets thanks to the Asset Manager, the brand new efficient way to manage your product assets within the PIM.  
[Eager to know more about these new assets? It's right here!](/documentation/asset-manager.html#the-asset)
:::

:::info
This resource is only available in the [Entreprise Edition](https://www.akeneo.com/enterprise-edition/) and since the version 2.0 of the PHP API client.
:::

#### Get an asset 

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

/*
 * Returns an array like this:
 * [
 *     'code'            => 'bridge',
 *     'localizable'     => false,
 *     'description'     => 'Architectural bridge of a city, above water',
 *     'end_of_use'      => '2028-01-25T00:00:00+00:00',
 *     'tags'            => [
 *         'cities',
 *         'water',
 *     ],
 *     'categories'      => [
 *         'faces',
 *     ],
 *     'variation_files' => [
 *         [
 *             '_link'   => [
 *                 'download' => [
 *                     'href' => 'http://akeneo.com/api/rest/v1/assets/bridge/variation-files/mobile/no-locale/download',
 *                 ],
 *                 'self'     => [
 *                     'href' => 'http://akeneo.com/api/rest/v1/assets/bridge/variation-files/mobile/no-locale',
 *                 ],
 *             ],
 *             'locale' => null,
 *             'scope'  => 'mobile',
 *             'code'   => '0/7/2/1/07217eea32563821b46336d2dec696e4f69415ec_bridge_mobile.jpg',
 *         ],
 *         [
 *             '_link'   => [
 *                 'download' => [
 *                     'href' => 'http://akeneo.com/api/rest/v1/assets/bridge/variation-files/ecommerce/no-locale/download',
 *                 ],
 *                 'self'     => [
 *                     'href' => 'http://akeneo.com/api/rest/v1/assets/bridge/variation-files/ecommerce/no-locale',
 *                 ],
 *             ],
 *             'locale' => null,
 *             'scope'  => 'ecommerce',
 *             'code'   => 'a/e/1/0/ae104d0b8cd2111380029240630008a01585d7ed_bridge_ecommerce.jpg',
 *         ],
 *     ],
 *     'reference_files' => [
 *         [
 *             '_link'  => [
 *                 'download' => [
 *                     'href' => 'http://akeneo.com/api/rest/v1/assets/bridge/reference-files/no-locale/download',
 *                 ],
 *                 'self'     => [
 *                     'href' => 'http://akeneo.com/api/rest/v1/assets/bridge/reference-files/no-locale',
 *                 ],
 *             ],
 *             'locale' => null,
 *             'code'   => 'b/7/b/e/b7be03a438ace1d9ea782440f735a72fff2a3f3c_bridge.jpg',
 *         ],
 *     ],
 * ]
 */
$asset = $client->getAssetApi()->get('bridge');
```

#### Get a list of assets 

There are two ways of getting assets. 

**By getting pages**

This method allows to get assets page per page, as a classical pagination.
It's possible to get the total number of assets with this method.

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$firstPage = $client->getAssetApi()->listPerPage(50, true);
```

You can get more information about this method [here](/php-client/list-resources.html#by-getting-pages).

**With a cursor**

This method allows to iterate the assets. It will automatically get the next pages for you.

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$assets = $client->getAssetApi()->all(50);
```

You can get more information about this method [here](/php-client/list-resources.html#with-a-cursor).

#### Create an asset 

If the asset does not exist yet, this method creates it, otherwise it throws an exception.

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/', 'client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin')->build()

$client->getAssetApi()->create('unicorn', [
    'localizable'     => false,
    'description'     => 'The wonderful unicorn',
    'end_of_use'      => '2042-11-21',
    'tags'            => ['colored', 'flowers'],
    'categories'      => ['face', 'pack'],
]);
```

#### Upsert an asset 

If the asset does not exist yet, this method creates it, otherwise it updates it.

```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$client->getAssetApi()->upsert('bridge', [
    'localizable' => false,
    'description' => 'Architectural bridge of a city, above water',
    'end_of_use'  => null,
    'tags'        => ['water'],
    'categories'  => ['face', 'pack']
]);
```

#### Upsert a list of assets 

This method allows to create or update a list of assets.
It has the same behavior as the `upsert` method for a single asset, except that the code must be specified in the data of each asset.


```php
$client = new \Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\AkeneoPimEnterpriseClientBuilder('http://akeneo.com/')->buildAuthenticatedByPassword('client_id', 'secret', 'admin', 'admin');

$client->getAssetApi()->upsertList([
    [
        'code'        => 'unicorn',
        'localizable' => false,
        'description' => 'The wonderful unicorn',
        'end_of_use'  => '2042-11-21',
        'tags'        => ['colored', 'flowers'],
        'categories'  => ['face', 'pack'],
    ],
    [
        'code'        => 'bridge',
        'localizable' => false,
        'description' => 'Architectural bridge of a city, above water',
        'end_of_use'  => null,
        'tags'        => ['water'],
        'categories'  => ['face', 'pack']
    ],
]);
```

::: warning
There is a limit on the maximum number of assets that you can upsert in one time on server side. By default this limit is set to 100.
:::
